Within the excel “Claim_Modeling_Data_Extract'' file there is a tab called “Counts” (hidden) where all of the following numbers come from. In total there are 223,984 claims for the entire dataset, of which 4,799 claims are from the developing year of 2021. These records were removed from the data set because 2021 is a developing year and there are additional data challenges with developing claims. Example, a claim can occur on 1/1/2021 but it could take the insured 20-30 days to contact the insurance company because the insured did not know there was significant damage like in the case of hail or ice damming. Using data as new as 2020 as of mid-2021 is a more developed data set. 

After removing 2021 claims, the dataset shrank to 219,185 claims (233,984-4,799). As a point of reference 219,185 claims divided by 10 years is about 21,919 then cutting the data by month or 21,919/12 = about 1,827 per month or even smaller at about 59 (1,827/31) per day. This is a very small volume of claims, so the team aggregated the data primarily using domain knowledge. The following 5 key aggregation assumptions are made: 

(1) Aggregate claims on a monthly basis: Given our business challenge is to assist the reserving actuaries, daily claim forecasting is not as important because reserves are set monthly and quarterly. With quarterly reserves seen by Wall Street analysts and monthly used as an internal temperature check. Claim patterns tend to be based on weather activity so there is a strong seasonal component, which monthly will represent nicely.

(2) Aggregate all of the geographic variables into regions: Geography plays an important role with claim activity and since the data is masked a proper mapping table will not be provided, instead the mapping was done when the excel “Claim_Modeling_Data_Extract_Final” file is created. The regions selected represent the company’s major sales regions and these regions already take into consideration how the business is transacted and the type of risks. 5 regions were created: West, South, South Central, North East, North West, and Upper Midwest.

(3) Aggregate all of the market lines of business and products into 4 groups: Small, Middle, Large, and Other: Since the market sizing speaks to the types of products offered, the risks appetite, and the underlying exposure complexity, this was a logical group to make. Similar to point 2 about a proper mapping table will not be provided, instead the mapping was done when the excel “Claim_Modeling_Data_Extract_Final” file is created. Small markets typically insure 1 - 2 locations, have total insured values less than 10 million, and range from agriculture, service, and office type risks. Middle markets typically have 10+ locations, have total insured values 25M+, and range from retail and wholesale trade, manufacturing, services, and office risks. Large markets typically have 50+ locations with total insured values of 50M+ and range from habitational risks, universities/colleges, highrise buildings, malls/stripmalls and service/retail industries. “Other” is our excess and surplus lines which can be any risk within the company’s underwriting appetite that the admitted market is unwilling to write. These risks can range from small, middle, or large markets but have higher potential risk and are thus unregulated by the various departments of insurance due to the coverage restrictions and need for flexible pricing. Example, coastal or earthquake prone areas, high risk industries like fertilizer manufacturers, or capital impared companies.

(4) Aggregate industries (great reference: https://www.osha.gov/data/sic-manual) into 7 divisions based on domain knowledge from ABC Insurance: Similar to point 2 about a proper mapping table will not be provided, instead the mapping was done when the excel “Claim_Modeling_Data_Extract_Final” file is created. The 7 divisions are Agriculture, Forestry, And Fishing, Finance, Insurance, And Real Estate, Manufacturing, Other, Public Administration, Retail and Wholesale Trade Services.

(5) Aggregate claims into catastrophes (CATs) vs non-CATs: CATs are a major driver of claims for any property insurance company. CATs are unpredictable due to their infrequent nature or their ability to impact many insureds in a single event. A single CAT also has a wide range of severity uncertainty, they can drive a handful of very expensive losses or a lot of insignificant losses or both. CATs are defined by Property Claim Services (PCS), which is an ISO company and is used as an industry standard. PCS’s definition is any event causing $25M+ of insured property damage and impacting multiple insurers. These events are typically hurricanes/tropical storms, earthquakes, terrorism, wildfires, hail, straight-lined winds (derechos), winter storms, flooding, etc… Given the role that CATs play on insurance claims, Y/N indicator using the C_ID field has been created.

In addition to the data modifications mentioned above, retained only the following fields: W_ID, BLD_ID, & LG_ID and threw away the rest. The new attributes for modeling exercise can be found in the excel “Claim_Modeling_Data_Extract_Final'' file.







